OKTA-519187: conditions api changes (#4108)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/roles/index.md

# Administrator Roles API

The Okta Administrator Roles API provides operations to manage both standard and custom administrative Role assignments for a User.

> This document includes the operations of the standard Roles API and the Custom Roles API, and where they intersect.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document includes the operations of the standard Roles API and the Custom Roles API, and where they intersect.
```

> The Okta Administrator Roles API provides operations to manage administrative Role assignments for a User.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta Administrator Roles API provides operations to manage both standard and custom administrative Role assignments for a User.
```

> Role listing APIs provide a union of both standard and Custom Roles assigned to a User or Group. Okta provides both groups of APIs and their intersections in this doc.

Reviewer: What are the two APIs? We should name them explicitly here. @vasishtajayanti-okta

Author: @brentschaus-okta this is talking about the two _groups_ of APIs one for standard roles, which generally fall under, `api/v1/users|groups/{id}/roles*` and one for Custom Roles which fall under `/api/v1/iam/*`.
The document lists out all the apis below, so I think we don't need that here.

> Role listing APIs provide a union of both standard and Custom Roles assigned to a User or Group. Okta provides both groups of APIs and their intersections in this doc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document includes the operations of both APIs and where they intersect:
Roles: `api/v1/users|groups/{id}/roles*`
Custom Roles: `/api/v1/iam/*`
```

Author: This document includes the operations of _standard Roles and Custom Roles_ APIs and where they intersect: ... ?

}
```

> ### Update a permission

Author: If not add, this should be Create, as this `POST new`

> ### Update a permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a Permission
```

#### Request parameters

| Parameter        | Description                          | Param Type   | DataType                             | Required |
| :----------------| :------------------------------------| :----------- | :------------------------------------| :------- |
| `roleIdOrLabel`  | `id` or `label` of the Role          | URL          | String                               | TRUE     |
| `permissionType` | Permission to add to the Role        | URL          | [Permission](#permission-types) name | TRUE     |

> | `conditions` <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />      | Conditions for further restricting a permission     | Body         | [Condition](#condition-object) object | FALSE    |

Reviewer 2: Just a question do we want to document that some attributes may not be able to be scoped for some permissions e.g. firstName, lastName, etc.

Author: Good point. I will add a note here.

Author: Actually, it is already listed here: https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/Security/custom-admin-role/permission-conditions.htm.
I will can link to this page from the ConditionObject section.

> **NOTE:** Conditions are only available for `okta.users.read` and `okta.users.userprofile.manage`

#### Response parameters

The updated Permission object

#### Request example

```bash
curl -v -X PUT \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/iam/roles/cr0Yq6IJxGIr0ouum0g3/permissions/okta.users.read"
-d '{
    "conditions": {
      "include": {
        "okta:ResourceAttribute/User/Profile": [
          "city",
          "state",
          "zipCode"
        ]
      }
    }
  }'
```

#### Response example

```json
{
  "label" : "okta.users.read",
  "conditions": {
    "include": {
      "okta:ResourceAttribute/User/Profile": [
        "city",
        "state",
        "zipCode"
      ]
    }
  },
  "created": "2021-02-06T16:20:57.000Z",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-02-06T16:20:57.000Z",
  "_links": {
    "role": {
      "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/iam/roles/cr0Yq6IJxGIr0ouum0g3"
    },
    "self": {
      "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/iam/roles/cr0Yq6IJxGIr0ouum0g3/permissions/okta.users.read"
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Get permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Retrieve a permission
```

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

> Will return an error if the permission already exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns an error if the permission already exists
```

Author: done

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
```

### Update permission
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/iam/roles/${roleIdOrLabel}/permissions/${permissionType}" />

> Update an existing permission in a Role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates an existing permission in a Role
```

Author: done

#### Request parameters

| Parameter        | Description                                         | Param Type   | DataType                              | Required |
| :----------------| :-------------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :------------------------------------ | :------- |
| `roleIdOrLabel`  | `id` or `label` of the Role                         | URL          | String                                | TRUE     |
| `permissionType` | Permission to update in the Role                    | URL          | [Permission](#permission-types) name  | TRUE     |
| `conditions`     | Conditions for further restricting a permission     | Body         | [Condition](#condition-object) object | FALSE    |

> NOTE: Currently conditions are only available for `okta.users.read` and `okta.users.userprofile.manage`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Conditions are only available for `okta.users.read` and `okta.users.userprofile.manage`
```

Author: done

#### Response parameters

> The updated permission object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated Permission object
```

#### Response parameters

> The requested permission object<br>

Reviewer: How about this?

```suggestion
The requested Permission<br>
```

> <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />Will also include the conditions on the permission (if applicable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />Includes the conditions on the permission (if applicable)
```

Author: done

}
```

### List all Resource Sets

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/iam/resource-sets" />

> Lists all Resource Sets

Reviewer: I don't think so. If the response only includes a single resource set, we use "retrieve". If there can be more than one resource set in the response, we use "Lists all". @vasishtajayanti-okta

]
```

> #### Replace a Group target in a group administrator role

Author: If we cannot use `Add`, then `Assign` is better than replace
Something like `Assign a Group target to a group administrator role.`
I would

> #### Replace a Group target in a group administrator role

Author: @royalchan-okta can you comment here?

> #### Replace a Group target in a group administrator role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Assign a Group Target to a group administrator Role
```

> ##### Replace a Group target in a group administrator role given to a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Assign a Group Target to a group administrator Role given to a User
```

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/users/${userId}/roles/${roleId}/targets/groups/${groupId}" />

> Replaces a Group target for a `USER_ADMIN` or `HELP_DESK_ADMIN` Role assigned to a User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assigns a Group target to a `USER_ADMIN` or `HELP_DESK_ADMIN` Role assigned to a User
```

> When you replace the first Group target, you reduce the scope of the role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all targets but applies only to the specified target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you assign the first Group target, you reduce the scope of the role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all targets but applies only to the specified target.
```

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> ##### Replace a Group target in a group administrator role given to a group

Reviewer: @vasishtajayanti-okta Should this be "Assign" or "Create", in this case?

Author: This should also be "Assign"

]
```

> #### Replace an App target to an App administrator role

Author: This should also be "Assign"

> ##### Replace an App target to an App administrator role given to a User

Author: This should also be "Assign"

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/users/${userId}/roles/${roleId}/targets/catalog/apps/${appName}" />

Replaces an App target for an `APP_ADMIN` Role assigned to a User

> When you replace the first App target, you reduce the scope of the Role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all App targets, but applies only to the specified target.

Author: This should be "assign"

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> ##### Assign an App Target in an App administrator Role given to a Group

Author: nit: `to` might be better here

> ##### Replace an App target in an App administrator role given to a Group

Author: This should also be "Assign"

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/groups/${groupId}/roles/${roleId}/targets/catalog/apps/${appName}" />

> Replaces an App target for an `APP_ADMIN` Role assigned to a Group

Author: This should also be "Assign"

> When you replace the first App target, you reduce the scope of the role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all App targets but applies only to the specified target.

Author: This should be "assign"

> An App target that is replaced overrides any existing instance targets of the app. For example, if someone is assigned to administer a specific Facebook instance, a call to this endpoint with `facebook` for `appName` would make that person the administrator for all Facebook instances.

Author: This should be "assigned"

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> #### Replace an App Instance target in an App administrator role

Author: This should be "Assign"

Assign an admin role to a specific App Instance to grant the admin permission to manage an instance of one App or instances of multiple Apps. App Instances are specific Apps that admins create in their org. For example, there may be a Salesforce App configured differently for each sales region of a company. When you create an App Instance target, you may assign an admin to manage only two instances of the configured Salesforce Apps and then also to manage an instance of another configured App such as Workday.

> **Note:** You can target a mixture of both App and App Instance targets, but can't assign permissions to manage all the instances of an App and then a subset of that same App. For example, you can't specify that an admin has access to manage all the instances of a Salesforce app and then also specific configurations of the Salesforce app.

> ##### Replace an App Instance target in an App administrator role given to a User

Author: This should be "Assign"

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/users/${userId}/roles/${roleId}/targets/catalog/apps/${appName}/${appInstanceId}" />

> Replaces an App Instance target for an `APP_ADMIN` Role assigned to a User

Author: This should be "Assign"

> When you replace the first App or App Instance target, you reduce the scope of the role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all App targets, but applies only to the specified target.

Author: This should be "assign"

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> ##### Replace an App Instance target in an App administrator role given to a Group

Author: This should also be "Assign"

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/groups/${groupId}/roles/${roleId}/targets/catalog/apps/${appName}/${appInstanceId}" />

> Replaces an App Instance target for an `APP_ADMIN` Role assigned to a Group

Author: This should also be "Assign"

> When you replace the first App or App Instance target, you reduce the scope of the role assignment. The Role no longer applies to all App targets, but applies only to the specified target.

Author: This should be "assign"

### Binding object

> A Binding represents the assignment of a [Custom Role](#custom-role-object) to a list of admins. Bindings are specific to a [Resource Set](#resource-set-object). There’s a maximum of one Binding object per Role in a Resource Set.

Author: nit: Can we keep it as `There is`?

Reviewer: Our style guide is pretty clear about using contractions to convey a more relaxed tone, especially when dealing with technical subjects. It should stay as it is.

      }
    }
```

## Condition object
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

> A Condition is a way to further restrict a permission in a Custom Admin Role. Ex. restricting access to specific profile attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a Condition object to further restrict a permission in a Custom Admin Role. For example, you can restrict access to specific profile attributes.
```

Author: done

> NOTE: Currently conditions are only available for `okta.users.read` and `okta.users.userprofile.manage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Conditions are only available for `okta.users.read` and `okta.users.userprofile.manage`.
```

Author: done

> NOTE: Admins cannot be restricted from viewing some attributes (First name, Last name, Username, Primary$ email, or Mobile phone).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** You can't restrict admins from viewing certain attributes:
> - first name
> - last name
> - username
> - primary email
> - mobile phone
```

Author: done

### Condition object Properties

| Property         | Description                                                           | DataType | Required  |
| :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------- | :-------- |

> | `include`        | Object that contains attributes on which access should be allowed     | Object   | FALSE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `include`        | Object with attributes to which access is allowed     | Object   | FALSE     |
```

Author: done

> | `exclude`        | Object that contains attributes on which access should not be allowed | Object   | FALSE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `exclude`        | Object with attributes to which access isn't allowed | Object   | FALSE     |
```

Author: done

> NOTE: Exactly one of `include` or `exclude` must be present in the conditions object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Exactly one of `include` or `exclude` must be present in the conditions object.
```

Author: done
